Hey welcome back.
And this video I'm just going to introduce you to Sublime Text.
So the editor we're going to use the place will be writing all of the code or most of our code in the
entire course is in Sublime Text.
It's a free text editor.
A really really powerful free tool.
Most of the time when you get these free things they're either limited in what they can do unless you
pay to unlock it or they're kind of cheap and not well-maintained.
Sublime is neither of those things.
It's constantly updated and maintained.
There's a really strong community behind it.
It's not some dinky piece of free software.
In fact if you Google this is very unscientific but if you Google you know best Python editor or a top
Python editor Mac you'll always find sublime first.
So to get started you go to Sublime Text dot com and click on download it will detect what platform
you're on and just click the download button.
So I already have it installed but it's really simple process just like any other application.
You download it and then you run it and drag it to your Applications folder and that's it.
So here's sublime.
I have it open now and all I want to do is give you a really quick tour of some of the features that
I'll be using.
First of all to make new files just like any other piece of software you can use shortcuts command and
to make a new file or you can go up to the menu file new file or you could use your terminal and type
touch new file.
But let's say that we want to make a new file it's untitled.
If I add some Python code in here which we're getting ahead of ourselves we haven't talked about Python
really but one plus one.
Our first little line.
This right now it's not highlighted.
I don't have any autocomplete.
It's not a python file at all.
If you look down here I unfortunately can't make this larger.
But it says plain text.
But if I save the file I'll just save it in this folder called Python course and also save it as demo
that y.
Let's go with sublime demo.
Why.
That's the file type for python files.
And the hit save it immediately changes and it's now highlighting my syntax.
Also down here supply has detected that it's a python file.
There are tons of features to sublime that I'm not going to go over.
There are some great articles on you know the 30 best things you need to know about sublime the 50 shortcuts
you have to master.
There's really good writing about it.
Tons of blogs.
But I'll leave that up to you because some of my students I know are more comfortable with the all the
hunt and peck method finding you know menus rather than using shortcuts.
All right.
So as far as opening our files in subline that's going to be important.
Let's say that I've made a folder I have made a folder on the desktop and such a thing called Python
course and let's focus on the web scraping folder.
So there's all these files and folders in there if I want to open a single file like let's go open this
file right here.
Books to see a or a book scraper why I can just drag it over with my mouse and it opens up and I can
edit it and you can see this is full syntax highlighting for Python.
And so it's Python specific.
If I changed you know I put non Python code in here it would not be highlighted correctly.
Also there are things like auto complete.
So we haven't talked about any Python syntax I'm getting ahead of myself but if I type a word like DPF
and I hit tab that's a common phrase that we use in Python it auto completes for me and gives me some
extra code.
So look out for that as we go.
I'll introduce other.
You'll see me using tab and I'll point it out.
I'll type a couple of letters hit tab and something will happen.
We can also open entire directories.
So if I wanted the entire inclosing folder I can drag that over and it opens up a little sidebar for
me.
And now I can toggle between the history file and the python file.
Or I might have to put on files this is just an example something we do later but imagine you have all
your files for the course if you want them all open at once.
You could easily do that and just click on the file if you want to edit.
Also you can come up here too.
Where's that file.
No preferences.
There you go.
Subcontext preferences and then color scheme if you want to change.
There are a couple that come preinstalled.
You can also download more I'll stick with Monica for now because today I use an entire course to have
continuity there.
You can also download all sorts of packages that will help you do other things.
Another feature I like is if you go to View and you got to lay out you can decide if you want to file
side by side which often do you know have two files open and a look at one of them and type in the other
one.
So a lot of what we'll be doing is working across multiple files.
So that's another thing you can do in the very last thing and I want to point out I use a short cut
pretty often in this course called UBL.
And if you just install sublime you will not have this shortcut by default.
So let me just explain what it is first if I'm in a directory called Python course that I have for the
course and when to make a new directory just call that the sublime demo CD into that it's empty.
So what I could do is make a new file but say that I want to make a file called Hello dot P Why I could
do touch as we saw in the previous section on the command line.
That makes me the file and if I type LS it's there.
But now I have the problem of how do I open it in sublime.
So I could go back and hunt for it using finder.
I called that sublime demo.
Here it is.
And I can drag it in and now I have hollowed up why open here and I can add content and save it and
that's part of this with you is optional if you return to stock.
We're frustrated we're confused.
Please don't let it prevent you from moving on.
Please do it before you get good stock.
Skip it.
But I can also use this as UBL shortcut that I have installed as UBL sublime.
Load up Hawai and it opens it for me.
I can use that to make new files that don't exist so I could do a good buy.
Why.
And it opens a goodbye for me.
Before I talk about how you could install it just if you see me using this in the course all that it
does is open a file in sublime text so you could instead manually make a new file and save it with a
name you could use touch.
And then open it or you could use SBL if you have it installed.
So it's a really useful tool but there's a catch which is that it can be kind of a pain to install in
my bootcamp courses.
Everybody was on Macs and we'd have what 25 students.
I'd say at least five or six would hit a roadblock with this.
It was nothing that they did wrong.
It was just in the past they had done something that caused problems that conflicted with what this
install wanted.
So I'll include this tutorial if you want to follow along.
All you have to do is run a couple of commands that explains it well you need to make sure that you
have subcontext 3 not 2 and that it's installed in the correct location.
Instead the Applications folder and if it is you should be able to just run one or two lines to create
this symlink instead of your terminal.
And this tutorial actually calls this the command sublime instead of UBL because they personally think
it's better to be more explicit like this.
But you can change it.
It's decided here.
So whatever you wrote here it's going to be the symlink name anyway.
So you can give this a shot.
But like I said it can be difficult.
Don't allow it to impede your progress through the rest of the course because it's not that hard just
to drag a file over to Sublime Text.
It's not bad.
This is just if you want to be you know streamlined and never leave your terminal.
Next we're going to write our first really simple python program and execute it.
So we need some time to do that.